It’s a well-known fact, that the geographical position very often influences the climate and weather of any country. The United States is no exception. Here, the Cascade Mountains and the Sierra Nevada Mountains, due to their being close to the west coast, catch the largest share of the rain off the Pacific Ocean. As a result there is too little rain for almost the whole western half of the Unites States, which lies in the "rain shadow" of the mountains. In a great part of that territory farmers must depend on irrigation water from the snows or rains.

One of the most important geographic boundaries in the United States is the 50-centimeter rainfall line. It runs north and south almost through the middle of the country. East of the line, farming here is easy and the population is relatively large. West of the line, you can find man-made irrigation systems, dry-farming and grazing. There are fewer people living here. West of the RockyMountains, there are vast areas without any trees. In this part of the country are the deserts which receive as little as over 12 centimeters of rainfall a year.

If there were no mountains or oceans, then the amount of the heat would progress from north to south. Instead, there are all kinds of unexpected differences in climate. For example, all along the western coast, the temperature changes little between summer and winter. The climate along the northern part of this coast is similar to that of England.

But in the north central part of the country, summer and winter are very different. There the average difference between July and January is 36 degrees centigrade (°C). The coldest days of a typical January day may be — 40 degrees °C, and the hottest July day may be +45 degrees °C. In the eastern part of the United States, the difference between summer and winter is also distinct, but not so extreme. Near the southwestern corner of the country, the climate is mild and spring like in winter.

Christmas Day is one of the most favorite American holidays It is celebrated on December 25. Christmas is a Christian holiday marking the birth of the Christ Child. Decorating houses and yards with lights, putting up Christmas trees, giving gifts, and sending greeting cards have become traditions even for many non-Christian Americans "here also a tradition to place a decorated Christmas tree in the White House, the official home in Washington D.C. of the President of the USA.

The tradition of placing a decorated tree in the White House began in 1889 on Christmas morning during the Presidency of Benjamin Harrison. The President’s grandchildren young Benjamin and Mary McKee, led the Harrison household into the second floor Oval Room to take a look at the first White House Christmas tree. It was lit with candles. Filled stockings hung from the mantel. Presents, candy and nuts were distributed to family and staff. President Harrison gave turkeys and gloves to his employees. He received a silver-dollar-shaped picture holder from his daughter, Mame Harrison McKee.

What began as a family gathering has become a national tradition. Over the years, the White House Christmas tree has reflected both the times and the tastes of the First Family. First Lady Frances Cleveland created a "technology savvy" tree in 1895 when she hung electric lights on the White House tree. First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy began the tradition of Christmas Tree themes when she decorated the 1961 Christmas tree in toy trimmings from the Nutcracker Suite ballet by Tchaikovsky.

Today, the First Lady selects a theme and taps the talents of American artisans, who give life to the idea. Laura Bush chose "Home for the Holidays" for the 2001 theme, which features replicas of the family homes of the nation’s Presidents. The Presidents Christmas tree can be viewed by anyone either in the news programs, or on the official web site of the White House.

The variations in temperature within the United States have had a marked effect on the country’s economy and living standards. There is a long crop-growing season along the south-east coast where cotton is a principal product. In some of the cooler climates or in climates which combine coolness and humidity, people grow apples, wheat and corn. This gives the United States a large variety of agricultural products.

The Right Honourable Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill, KG. ОМ. CH. FRS (November 30, 1874 — January 24, 1965) was a British politician, best known as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom during World War II. At various times an author, soldier, journalist, legislator and painter, Churchill is generally regarded as one of the most important leaders in British and world history.

Winston Churchill was born at Blenheim Palace, near Woodstock in Oxfordshire. Winston’s father, Lord Randolph Churchill, was a politician. Winston’s mother, Lady Randolph Churchill of Brooklyn, New York, was a daughter of American millionaire Leonard Jerome. As the son of a prominent politician, it was unsurprising that Churchill was soon drawn into politics himself.

He started speaking at a number of Conservative meetings in the 1890s. In the 1906 general election, Churchill won a seat in Manchester. He served as Under Secretary of State for the Colonies. Churchill soon became the most prominent member of the Government. At the outbreak of the Second World War Churchill was appointed First Lord of the Admiralty. He was an early supporter of the pan-Europeanism that led to the formation of the European Common market and later the European Union (for which one of the three main buildings of the European Parliament is named in his honour).

Miscellany — In 1953 he was awarded two major honours. He was knighted and became Sir Winston Churchill and he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature "for his mastery of historical and biographical description as well as for brilliant oratory in defending exalted human values. He was named Time Magazine "Man of the Halt-Century" in the early 1950s. In 1959 Churchill inherited the title of Father of the House. He became the MP with the longest continuous service — since 1924.

Churchill College, a constituent college of the University of Cambridge, was founded in 1960 as the national and commonwealth memorial to Winston Churchill. Churchill was voted as "The Greatest Briton" in 2002 "100 Greatest Britons" poll sponsored by the BBC and voted for by the public

"I am always happier when I’m painting. It is like Christmas every day… waking up to see what I painted the day before".

Rosanna Hardin Hill, artist

The works of Rosanna Hardin Hill are masterful depictions of ruins in Pompeii, lush gardens in Venice, villas in Florence, classical, romantic, historical scenes for sure. But there is another intriguing work that is not quite as obvious as oil paintings — the story behind the artist herself

How Hardin Hill became one of Indianapolis’ (Indiana) most recognized contemporary artists started with an assignment she received while working as a lifestyle reporter years ago. The assignment was to make a report on the lives of students studying at the Heron School of Art.

"The reminded me of how artists live in Paris. It was a very bohemian lifestyle", recalls Hardin Hill.

The dean of the school took notice of Hardin Hill’s skills at writing and her keen interest in the arts. He offered her a position in public relations with the bonus of taking classes free of charge. Hardin Hill, who was 30 at the time, took the bait. However, once she graduated with an arts degree, Hardin Hill still didn’t see the possibilities of making a living in the arts. So, she decided to take a job with a newspaper in Santa Fe, NM.

Eventually, the lure of the arts was too much. Hardin Hill decided to "do just arts". She taught a beginning art class and sold her art works Hill supplemented her income with odd jobs, when she returned to New Mexico.

Later, Hardin Hill transformed the cottage behind her home and studio into an art gallery. The property on Woodruff Place — the home and the cottage — has been in her family for three generations. Her grandparents first purchased it in 1915. The historic Eastside neighborhood has had an impact on her works. Hardin Hill has never regretted her decision to pursue the arts.

"I love classical subjects and formal gardens", says Hardin Hill. "The influence of Woodruff Place really got me into formal gardens. It is like living in a park, with its fountains, statues and wonderful trees. Everything I think about — history, philosophy, and beauty in nature — it all just comes together in art for me".